

The `@openapi-codegen` package does the best job for producing TypeScript type declarations.

The output can includes what they call Fetchers - which are functions implementing REST client functionality.

These might be useful as a client library and it would simplify the implementation.  But, the Fetcher concept is not well documented, and is convoluted enough to not be straightforward to integrate as a library.

### OpenAPI Codegen fetcher functions

In the previous section we looked at a method for manually generating functions to make REST calls.  The conclusion we reached was that this is not sustainable over the long-run.  Instead, it's better to auto-generate most of these functions.

The OpenAPI Codegen library we chose to generate data types also includes what it calls _Fetcher_ functions.  These functions implement the operations defined in the OpenAPI specification, including clear type definitions.  The advantage is that the fetcher functions are automatically regenerated for you.

But, let's study an example fetcher function:

```js
export const searchAllPrograms = (
  variables: SearchAllProgramsVariables,
  signal?: AbortSignal
) =>
  openadr3ApiFetch<
    SearchAllProgramsResponse,
    SearchAllProgramsError,
    undefined,
    {},
    SearchAllProgramsQueryParams,
    {}
  >({ url: "/programs", method: "get", ...variables, signal });
```

This implements the same `searchAllPrograms` operation we discussed earlier.  We see that it includes the necessary data types, the protocol endpoint (`/programs`) and other useful information.  This is an arrow function that calls `openadr3ApiFetch`.  Perhaps all we'd have to do is implement `openadr3ApiFetch` for our library?

This, and other functions, is generated by OpenAPI Codegen.  But, the code is unclear enough that I decided to look elsewhere. 

